                  Lesson 6: Text Processing Commands

        This lesson introduces commands which operate upon words,
sentences, and paragraphs.  For this lesson you should have some
text to play around with, and it should have a few paragraphs. 
The text of this lesson is an ideal example.  

        The first three commands we will learn are ESC  U, ESC  L,
and ESC  C.  All three work on words.  

	ESC  U stands for "Uppercase word".  
	ESC  L stands for "Lowercase word".  
	ESC  C stands for "Capitalize word".  

Try each of these on some words.    For example, if you had the 
word "Macpherson" and positioned the cursor on the "p", an ESC  C 
would  produce "MacPherson", an ESC  L would leave the word 
unchanged, and an ESC  U would create "MacPHERSON".  The word casing
commands would have left the cursor on the space following the
word.  


    	Another set of useful commands allows you to transpose
characters or words.  Often typing mistakes result in characters
typed in the wrong order, such as "tpye" instead of "type".  To
correct this, simply place the cursor on the second of the
transposed characters, and enter ^--T.  Try this now on the
"tpye" example.  You can also correct transposed words with the
ESC  T command.  Practice this command on" text this".  Place the
cursor between "text" and "this" in the previous sentence and
enter ESC  T.  The result will be "this text" with the cursor at
the end of "text".

        The next command we will learn deals with sentences.  It
is ESC  K, the "Delete sentence" command.  ESC  K is similar to
^--C; it saves what it kills, in case you want to do a ^--Y. 
Also, just as a ^--C typed in the middle of a line only kills
forward to the end of the line, an ESC  K, if typed in the middle
of a sentence, will only kill from that point to the end of the
sentence.  (If you are in the middle of a sentence and want to
kill it all, beginning to end, type ESC  A (beginning of
sentence, learned in Lesson 2), then ESC  K.)

        ESC  K can be fooled by abbreviations because they have
periods in them and hence look just like ends of sentences.  But
better too little deleted than too much.  If ESC  K ever stops before
you want it to, just type it again, and the "rest" of the sentence
will disappear.  Try a few ESC  Ks and then a Control Y to restore it
all.  You may notice that the last ESC  K will not delete the two
spaces after sentence punctuation.  It truly only deletes from where
the cursor is to the next end-of-sentence which follows it.  You may
have to clean up the extra spaces manually.

        The rest of the commands we will learn about in this lesson
deal with entire paragraphs of text.  The two simplest commands are
ESC  P and ESC  N.  They move to the beginning and end, respectively, of
whatever paragraph you are in.  (You can remember these commands,
because they look very similar to ESC < and ESC >, which we learned in
Lesson 2.)  If you are in between two paragraphs and not really "in"
either one, ESC  P will move to the beginning of the preceding
paragraph, and ESC  N will move to the end of the following one.

        Try these a few times, at various places in the text.  You
may notice the cursor stop in places you didn't think were
paragraphs, for example, in the middle of lists or in front of
indented examples.  So, what makes a paragraph?  As far as these and
all other Perfect Writer paragraph commands are concerned, a
paragraph begins:

	(1) A blank line.

	(2) A line started by hitting the TAB key.

        (3) A line started with a commercial at-sign ("@").  This
            is for compatibility with Perfect Writers "Document
            design" commands.

        Another command for dealing with paragraphs of text is ESC  Q. 
ESC  Q "fills" entire paragraphs of text, rearranging words and lines so
that the right-hand margin is consistent.  It allows you to keep the
text neat.  When modifying a previously existing paragraph, you may
add or delete words without worrying about existing margins, because
ESC  Q can fix them up when you're done.

        Try filling a few paragraphs.  (To make ESC  Q work on a
particular paragraph, position the cursor anywhere in it, then type
the ESC  Q.)  If ESC  Q doesn't do anything to the text, then the
paragraphs are already as well filled as they can be.  Try inserting
some extra text into a line and doing another ESC  Q.  If you notice
ESC  Q joining any paragraphs together, this is because they were not
separated properly.  ESC  Q uses the same paragraphing rules as ESC  P and
ESC  N do.  If you want to make certain of how much text you are about
to fill with ESC  Q, you can check to see where the edges are by typing
ESC  P, then ESC  N, then (if you're satisfied that the boundaries are
correct) ESC  Q.

        Of course, no harm is done if ESC  Q joins two groups of text
which you desired as separate paragraphs.  You can easily position
yourself to where you want the new paragraph to occur and insert the
proper separator (either a blank line or a leading tab).  Then just
ESC  Q the second new paragraph.  Similarly, to join and refill two
paragraphs, merely delete the separator characters, and use ESC  Q. 
This can be particularly useful for modifying memorandanotice where
the new right margin is.  If you enter ^--X F and repeat with the
ESCape repeat command, it will set the fill column to that number.  If
you do not, it will set the fill column to wherever the cursor is at
the time.

        Another useful command is " ^--X . ".  (That is, a ^--X,
followed by a period.)  This command sets the paragraph indentation
column, and is used to indent an entire paragraph  from the left
edge of the screen.  This command is analogous to  setting the left
margin on a typewriter, but this margin is used  only by the
Text-filling commands.  Type:

        ESC  10 ^--X. 

and you will see the message "Indent Column = 10" appear in the
echo line.  Type an ESC  Q, and look at the results.

        The ^--X. command is useful for making narrower paragraphs,
perhaps, for example, text or quotes.  To make one, make the indent
column larger and the fill column smaller, the type the text and
fill it with ESC  Q.  Then, return the fill and indent columns to
their original positions.  (The standard settings are usually set by
ESC 0 ^--X . {period}  and ESC  65 ^--X F.)

	If you want to continue with the next lesson, select option 
E  from the Main Selection Menu, and enter "B:lesson7" when asked the
name of file to edit.  Use the  ^--X  ^--C  command to exit.
d by a period.)  This command sets the paragraph indentation
column, and is used to inde