                    Lesson 2: Moving Around Faster

	In this lesson we will be learning how to move the cursor
around faster.  Again, we need to use the Dual Display Windows.

	To use the Dual Display windows, enter the TWO WINDOW command:
		^--X  2        
	Then create a scratch pad by entering:
		^--X  ^--F  and answering 'scratch1.pad' when
asked for the "File to Read <CR>:".  As before, this will provide
you with a blank editing buffer in the top screen while allowing
you to scroll the lesson in the bottom window with the commands:
		ESC  V   {Scroll other window down}
		ESC  Z   {Scroll other window up}
	The TWO WINDOWS command divides the screen into two equal
size windows.  Since the top window needs less space, we will
increase the size of the bottom window.  Enter the OTHER WINDOW 
command:
		^--X  O  	{the letter "O"}	
    Use the ESCape REPEAT command and the ENLARGE WINDOW command
(^--X  ^) to increase the size of the bottow window by 4
lines.  Enter:
		 ESC 4     ^--X  ^
and then return to the top window with the OTHER WINDOW command:
	^--X  O

      Let's begin by typing on the keyboard.  Type the following
text on to the screen, using Perfect Writer.  Since the text is
poetry of a sort, be sure to break the lines (type carriage
returns) at the proper places.  Use the DELETE key to correct
some of the mistakes as you type it in.

	Blackbird singing in the dead of night.
	Take these broken wings and learn to fly.
	All your life
	You were only waiting for this moment to arise.
	Blackbird fly, Blackbird fly
	Into the light of the dark black night.
		by the Beatles

    Now, let's go back and make certain that the text is perfect. 
This should be a good chance to review, using ^--P (Previous
line), ^--N (Next line), ^--B (Backward character), ^--F (Forward
character), and ^--D (Delete character).  It won't take long to
make it perfect -- it's easy to turn a draft copy into a final
document, if you don't have to retype the whole thing every time
there's a change!

     In this lesson, we are going to change the text you just
typed in and perfected.  Changing this verse could be a real
chore, if all we had were the commands we learned in Lesson 1. 
Moving one character at a time is slow, especially if we can see
the place we want to get to in order to make a change.


     For example, how would you change the last word on the
previous line?  Typing ^--P and lots of ^--Fs could take a
while.  To illustrate a new command, let's change the word
"night" to "dawn".  Type some ^--Ps to position yourself on the
proper line.  Now type a ^--E.  ^--E is the END OF LINE command,
which moves the cursor to the end of the line.  Now type in
enough DELETEs to erase the word, "night".  (Perhaps you will want
to type some ^--Bs to pass over the punctuation first.)  Then
type in "dawn".


     Now, suppose we wanted to change the word, "Take", at the
beginning of the second line to the word, "Wear".  We could 
type some ^--Bs, but this would take a lot of keystrokes.
Instead, there is a command which moves to the beginning of the
line:  ^--A.  An easy way to remember that a ^--A moves to the
beginning of the line is that "A" is at the beginning of the
alphabet, or that it is on the far left of the keyboard, and the
cursor moves to the far left of the line.  So, go ahead now and
type a ^--A, a ^--N, and then type four ^--Ds to delete the word,
"Take", and then insert the word, "Wear", by simply typing it.  
Now type enough ^--Ns to get back to the bottom of the text.  
Notice that if you keep typing ^--Ns, you still stop at the last 
line you entered. Similarly, if you type ^--Ps when you are at the
beginning of your text, you will just stay in the same place.


      Now that we're at the end of the text, what if we noticed
that we wanted to change the first line?  We could type a lot of
^--Ps, one at a time. This is easy enough, but may be more
time-consuming for longer "distances".  The command ^--U (for
"Universal repeat count") will allow us to make the jump with
less typing.  Type the ^--U.  You will notice a message at the
bottom of the screen saying "Argument:" appear, along with the
number "4".  Type a "6" (The number in the message will change to
"6" also.),  since the line we want is six lines above where the
cursor is now. Then type a ^--P.  Six ^--P commands in a row will
automatically get executed.  If we decided that this wasn't where
we wanted to be, we could have typed "ESC 6  ^--N", and gone
down six lines just as easily.  ESCape repeats anything. Anything? 
Yes.  Type "ESC 10 *".  Ten stars will appear in your text.  Now
type an ESCape, then type the number ten, and then type the DELETE
key.  They will all go away again.  ESCape really does repeat
anything.

     Why did the number four appear as the "Universal" repeat
count each time before we typed in our number?  If we hadn't
typed a number, whatever character (control or otherwise) typed
subsequently would have been repeated four times.  This is the
default value.

	In addition to moving by characters, Perfect Writer has
commands that allow you to move the cursor by words at a time. 
To move forward a word at a time use the FORWARD WORD command: 
ESC  F.  Do that now.  Type an "ESC  F", and see what happens on the
screen.  Try it again a few times.  The ESC  F command stands for
"Move forward a word".  Let's change the word, "singing", to
"whistling".  Move to the top line of the screen (in whatever
method is most convenient for you now) to the first line of
text on the left-hand edge.  (Use ^--A to do this)  Use the ESC  F
command to skip past the word, "Blackbird", and then use it again
to skip past the word, "singing".  What the ESC  F command does is
to move to the end of whatever word is in front of it.  If you
were in the middle of a word and typed ESC  F, you would go to the
end of that word.

     To delete the word, you could type many DELETEs.  But as you
might have guessed, there is an ESC  command to do that, too.  To
delete words, use the ESC  DELETE command.  Type the Escape key,
then type the DELETE key, and the word, "singing", will disappear.
Now type in "whistling".

     Let's also change the word "dead" to "dark".  To do that,
move past the next two words (only TWO, the words "in" and "the")
with the ESC  F command.  Now let's delete the word, "dead", by
using the ESC  D command.  As you can now see, there are parallel
commands for ^--F (ESC  F), DELETE (ESC  DELETE), and ^--D (ESC  D),
all of which work on words rather than characters.  Now that
we've deleted the word with ESC  D, let's type in the word "dark".

      But look at the screen!  Since we didn't type a space
before the next word, the last two are run together.  Why did the
space between the words get deleted with ESC  D, but not with
ESC  DELETE before?  Just like the ESC  F command, the ESC  D command
only knows about deleting to the end of the next word.  So, if
you are in front of a space which itself is in front of the next
word, ESC  D will delete the space, too, since all Perfect Writer
does is to delete until it reaches the end of the next word.

     Let's fix up the missing space by typing ^--Bs until
the cursor is on top of the "d" in "dark", and then typing a
space.  You may have noticed that we didn't mention an ESC  B
(to go with ^--B) above.  Well, surely enough there is one.
Type that now, and notice that the cursor jumps backward across
the word, "the".  Let's delete that word (either with ^--D's
or ESC  D), and type in the words, "this lonely".  Just so you
know that you've gotten everything right this lesson, the first
line should now read, "Blackbird whistling in this lonely dark of
dawn".  If it's not correct, take a minute to fix it up now
using some of the commands you've learned in this lesson.

     Now let's change the word, "fly", in the second line to
"travel".  One easy way to do this would be to notice that the
word, "fly", is at the end of the next line, almost below where we
are now.  It could be reached by typing a ^--N and a ^--E. 
Another way would be to see that it is the eleventh word after
the ones we just typed in, and that it can be reached by typing
ESC 10 ESC  F.  However you get there, delete the word, using
either ESC  D or ESC  DELETE, and insert the word "travel".  If you
used the ESC  DELETE command, you might have to type the period at
the end of the line again, since it may have been eaten up in
the backward deletion of the word.

   Suppose we wanted to insert the name of the poem, "Blackbird",
in the line with the author's name?  We could type some ^--Ns to
get to the last line, but there is a quicker way.  Type "ESC >"
(the Escape key, then a greater-than symbol). This, as you see,
puts the cursor at the end of all the text. Now type a ^--A  to
position the cursor at the beginning of the proper line, and
insert a comma and the title.  There is a command to move as far
as possible in the other direction, too. Type "ESC <", and you
will move the cursor to the beginning of the text.

     There are two more quick-motion commands which you may find
useful.  These are ESC  A and ESC  E.  They are similar to ^--A and
^--E, except that they move to the beginning and end of sentences
rather than lines.  Now you have a reasonably complete set of
parallels for the control commands you learned in Lesson1:

        ^--F         Forward Character
        ESC  F       Forward Word

        ^--B         Backward Character
        ESC  B       Backward Word

        ^--D         Delete Forward Character
        ESC  D       Delete Forward Word

        DELETE       Delete Backward Character
        ESC  DELETE  Delete Backward Word

        ^--A         Beginning of Line
        ESC  A       Beginning of Sentence

        ^--E         End of Line
        ESC  E       End of Sentence

        ESC <       Beginning of Text
        ESC >       End of Text

     Experiment with these commands for a little while, until you
are used to what they do and are able to remember most of them.

     When you are done and want to leave Perfect Writer, type
"^--X   ^--C", as you did in Lesson 1.  You'll learn more about
what this and some of the other ^--X commands are used for in the
next lesson.

	If you want to go to the next lesson, just select option 
E  from the Main Selection Menu, and enter "B:lesson3" when asked
for the name of file to edit.

        (DJCP NOTE 29 Nov. l983:  line l73 amended to read ^--A
(for command to move cursor to beginning of line) instead of ^--P
as in original, which is wrong.   What ^--P does is move the
cursor to the previous line, remaining in the same column.)  ETE  Delete Backward Word

        ^--A         Beginning of Line
        ESC  A       Beginning of Sentence

   