		       Lesson 4: Searching

      The first command we will learn in this lesson is the "search"
command, "^--S".  As you will not be able to use the ^--V command to
advance a screen while learning to use the search command, use the two
windown command now to allow you to read and advance in one window
while working in another window.  Remember, you can move the cursor
from one window to another by using the OTHER WINDOW  Command, ^--X  O
(letter "o")  Enter the two window command:  ^--X  2
      Go to the next window now.  Go to the next screen with a ^--V.

  Enlarge the bottow window with the ENLARGE WINDOW Command; 
                
                   ESC 4  ^--X ^

      Suppose someone has given you a draft for corrections, and 
somewhere in the middle has marked a phrase to be changed.  It's 
easy to see it on paper, because the place is marked in red ink 
or the like.  Now it is necessary to find that place in the 
computer memory.  Certainly we could scan through the file looking 
for the marked place using ^--V's, but we can more quickly use the 
computer to search through the file to find the proper place.

      Try the search command now.  Move the cursor to the other 
window by entering:  ^--X   O  (letter O)  Then enter the command:
  
        ^--S

      When Perfect Writer requests in the bottom line, "Search 
Forward For <ESC>:, type "search".  You will see it echoed at the 
bottom of the screen.  After you have entered the word or string 
of words to search for, press the Escape key.  This tells Perfect 
Writer to begin searching.  {Press ESC  V  to go to the next screen}

      A forward search begins at the character the cursor is on,
continues until the searched-for item is found, and when it is,
positions the cursor just after it.  So, when you hit the Escape
key, you may have seen the cursor jump to one of the occurrences 
of the word "search" in this lesson.  

If not, try it again.  Enter the command:

      ^--S         Type:  search        Press [Escape]

Now, do not type in any character string (word or words) to be 
searched for; just enter the ^--S, and hit the Escape key right 
after the ^--S.  Notice the cursor jump to the next occurrence 
of the word "search".

       When you do not give the ^--S command a new character string 
to look for, it searches for whatever you told it last time.

      What happens if there is no character string exactly like
the one you type for ^--S?  Try it and see.  Display the next 
window.  

  Do a search for a misspelled word.  That is, do a search for
"Control" but end it with "el".  If there is no exact match of
the word between the cursor and the end of the text, as you see,
Perfect Writer will cause the terminal to display the phrase "Not
Found"at the right  of the echo line.  The cursor will then stop
at the closest match. 

      As you may have observed from the action of the search
command, it is a forward search.  In addition,  there is a
"backward" search as well.  It is used to search backwards in the
text from the current cursor position.  The command is called
"Reverse search for [ESC]", and is performed by ^--R.  All
of the features of ^--R are identical to ^--S, except
that, since it searches through the text in reverse, it puts 
the cursor at the beginning of the closest item that matches the 
string, rather than after it.  Notice that the character string to 
be searched for is saved and is the same one for both ^--R and
^--S.  So, you may find yourself typing "^--S", a string, and the 
Escape, and then, if you hear a beep, typing "^--R Escape" 
because you know the string is in the text somewhere.

      Before leaving this lesson, experiment with the search
command.  If you want to continue with the next lesson, then
enter:
	^--X ^--F  B:lesson5

Otherwise exit Perfect Writer by typing:

	^--X ^--C

and answer yes to the "Abandon Modified Buffers?" question.  Do
not save your modifications.
tion,  there is a
"backward" search as well.  It is us